You want to close the door, Mary?
Okay.
Yeah, okay.
Yes, sir.
We're testing, testing.
This is December 6th.
Testing, testing.
We're at 738 Garden Acres, and I'm about to interview Dr. Ted Franklin.
Dr. Franklin, let's begin by your introducing yourself to this tape.
Where did you grow up, go to high school, parents?
What happened?
Describe yourself before you came to A&M.
I was actually born January 30th, 1918, in Wichita, Kansas.
This was my father's beginning of the Kansas Black Lake Serum Company, which I might say was the first successful vaccine made in the United States, developed previously at Kansas State College at that time by O. M. Franklin & Associates.
He later incorporated the company with cattlemen from Colorado and they
They moved to Amarillo in 1918 and set up a new laboratory there and the headquarters in Denver, Colorado.
And I have a book which I'll give you, Mr. Monroe Haskell, and you can read about it in there.
Then I came to Amarillo at about four months of age with my mother and grandmother.
Grew up there, two blocks from Highway 66 in West Amarillo, and went to high school, junior high, grade school, San Jacinto, junior high at Sam Houston, and later two years in Amarillo High School.
We only had 11 grades in those days, so I graduated at the age of 17 and came here a year at junior college in Amarillo at that time, and then came here at the age of 18,
late August of 1936 on a bus.
Why did you come to A&M?
Why here instead of somebody's help?
Well, my father wanted, since he was a graduate of Kansas State and a veterinarian, class 1912, he wanted me to go to Kansas State and he could have gotten me a scholarship.
But for some reason, I decided I was a Texan and I wanted to come to Texas A&M.
So he didn't argue the points, so that's why I started.
What did you know about A&M before you came?
Practically nothing.
I really didn't have a background in NM.
Because you had not visited here.
Never had.
In fact, my friends in high school heard I was coming down here in South.
They call it South Texas.
Of course, it's Central Texas, but.
They said, it never gets cold down there.
The winter in January of 36 was much colder than any winter I'd ever spent in my life.
It was wet here, and you know when it gets wet and cold here, how cold it is.
I like to froze to death.
We went in the dormitories in Hart Hall.
We'd put newspapers on a radiator and sit on those radiators.
Then if you wanted to get warm, you went in the shower and turned on the shower, and you would warm up.
But that was the old sulfur water days.
I often wondered how many million gallons went down the creek because no one turned those showers off for hours upon hours.
They may run half the night or all night.
I don't know.
When you came to enroll, how did you get here?
I came on a bus.
I left Amarillo.
I think it was about close to 11 o'clock, and my mother took me, and my brother went down, got on the bus, and I got here the next afternoon.
Amarillo to Dallas.
I don't think we went to Dallas.
I think we came to Fort Worth and then.
Fort Worth, okay.
Yeah, that's a little shorter route.
Do you remember what you brought with you?
Yes.
My trunk, I can still see that red trunk on top of the bus.
It was up on top in those days.
We came over here at the Aggieland Inn.
Of course, no air condition in those days.
We didn't know what that was.
And drove up to where the old Aggieland Inn was on the campus, right by Sabisa Hall.
A fellow named Babe, he was a Hispanic fellow that had worked there, I think, a long time.
His name was Babe, and I don't have any love.
But he helped me get that trunk off.
Now, the interesting thing was that I can't remember just the trunk.
where it went from there, but I spent the first night in Walton Hall, and I remember a senior came up and told me to do something.
I kind of wondered what I was supposed to do, but I found out I was a freshman or beginning freshman, so whatever it was, I did it.
That night I slept on a mattress.
I had no sheets, and I remember it was kind of a hot night, so that's my first night at A&M.
All right, then how did you get assigned to a core unit?
Well, we went over, I guess it was first the old academic building, but I'm not for sure about that, but anyhow, they asked me what outfit I wanted to be in.
I didn't really have an idea, but they said somehow I guess it was H Infantry is what the unit I was assigned to, and they said the Amarillo and Hill Country
group is H Infantry and I said well that's alright sign me up in that so I was in H Infantry describe how where was H Infantry and describe how you were received by that group well of course I was a fish and yet I'd had a year in junior college so I still had the white stripe and was a fish on the campus and had no problem with that and we were in Hart Hall
And it was a pretty new hall in those days because I think it was only built in the mid-30s.
And so we were in the hard hall.
I still remember my room number.
It was C-13, I believe.
We shared the... They were called the ramp system.
And by the way, you know Brooks Cofer.
I guess you'll interview him.
I already have.
All right.
He told me why they built the ramp system.
They were trying to reduce hazing that way.
Is that correct?
Okay.
That's what he told me.
Well, anyhow, I was up in the top... We had the top two stores of C, and then we had...
D and E, I think.
I believe we had three ramps, but half of C was ours, and then on the bottom two was G Company.
We split the C ramp with G Company, and I can tell you about it's amazing there.
Your first roommate, was he special?
Where?
Cuero, Texas.
John Elzey.
And he was lost.
C-U-E-R-O.
What was his name?
John Elzey, E-double-L-Z-E-Y.
I believe he was related to Green, Judge Green down there who might probably.
Did he become a special friend?
Yes.
We were good friends, yeah.
But after the second year, I didn't room with him.
All right.
How did you all get indoctrinated into the Corps?
How did you learn all the Corps traditions and things that a new student was supposed to do?
Well, I guess it was pretty informal.
listened up for class when they told you what to do in those days there wasn't so much indoctrination i don't think you just picked it up and then we had we'd have yell practice at night over in front of the ymca and uh we learned the yells and things like that yeah did uh were you assigned some chores well yes i was freshmen were maids to
You've heard that term before, a maid.
I was a maid right across the hall to Dr. Redman.
You've heard of Redman, of course.
Harold Redman, who's a veterinarian.
He's deceased.
And a fellow from up in the hill country named Parker, and he'd come in the year before at midterm, so he was a frog.
So I was maid to Harold Redman and Frog Parker, and they fought like cats and dogs, but they kept the room clean, so I didn't have a whole lot of work.
And when did you do that room cleanup for them?
Well, it would be in the morning.
as I remember... Before Chow?
I believe it was, yes.
Or maybe it could have been a little in that afternoon.
No, we had to have those rooms clean in the morning, I guess.
And describe that fall a typical weekday.
What time did you get up?
What did you do when?
Okay, the burglar, which I think, by the way,
I'll put in a plug for having a little plaque or something put where he used to blow the bugler in my time, was right over beside of the YMCA building.
And I think they ought to have a plaque there.
But I was going to write for the Association, a former student.
If you can put in a word for that, I'll appreciate it.
I think you should be.
At 6 o'clock every morning, that's when we woke up.
The bugler blew the bugle day in rainy or shine, I guess it was.
All right, then you'd take a shower.
Well, I don't know if we always took a shower to be in, but we might have taken it the night before.
But we got up, put our uniform on, and got presentable, and then I guess at 7 we marched to the mess hall.
And we marched down to Cebiza.
Down to Cebiza, yes.
Were the new core dorms yet built?
No, they weren't built for 38.
Okay.
I remember we saw those.
And this is the fall of 36?
Fall of 36.
Fall 36.
And then that was a terrible winter of 36.
And 37, they had a big ice storm, and I changed the vet medicine during that ice, or at that time.
I remember walking down to the veterinary building, the old, we're now civil engineering building.
and there was about two inches of ice on the road.
They said it was the worst ice storm in 50 years here that broke trees all over and everything.
That would have been midterm, probably the latter part of January, middle of January sometime.
Were classes dismissed?
No, I don't think so.
I don't think classes, I don't ever recall classes being dismissed because of the ice storm.
I remember walking down, I changed to vet medicine at midterm of 37, and I remember walking down to the,
the veterinary building to do that, the veterinary hospital.
That first semester, do you remember some special classes you took or some special teachers that you met?
Well, of course, we met Dr. Marsteller right to start with, and we all ended up going to, I guess the deans were all in what we call the administration building,
Academic.
It's now called the academic again.
Is it called Jack Williams?
No.
Are you talking about the one with the dome?
No, not the old main.
We call that the main.
The administration.
The new one.
The new one down with the pillars and you drive up in the front.
I think all the students went to the various deans in that building.
At least I remember the vet students went by Dr. Marsteller.
He was sitting there at a table and he had two classic questions and you better have them.
He said, do you have your medical dictionary?
And do you have Sisson's Anatomy?
And the boys, I don't know what happened to the ones that didn't say that, but I had mine.
And Dr. Marstella, he could chew you out pretty good if he wanted to.
Describe him as a person.
Dr. Marstella, he was, well, in my day, he was gray-haired.
And he was of a short stature, more or less, and rather not real big, but...
fairly substantial man and of course he knew he knew who I was because my father see they all known about him so I was kind of about how many pre-vet students that would help us okay about how many pre-vet students were there then
We were the largest class in 41.
I would imagine there was at least 70 of them.
Something like that.
It was a big class.
All right, so you… Whereas in 1930, Dr. Hardy was the one veterinary graduate here.
Oh my goodness.
Yeah, he's gone.
He's been gone.
All right, you…
Where were most of your freshman year?
Where did you take most of your classes?
Well, the first semester, I was, like I say, I'd had fish work, so I wasn't in classes with fish, as we were called, and freshmen.
And it was mostly with upperclassmen.
I had, I remember chemistry, organic chemistry.
I had that in, I don't, I think that was in the spring, though, but in the fall,
I had, I guess, English, probably, and I don't think I had a history class.
Math?
Yeah, we had—well, wait a minute.
No, I had freshman math.
Golly, you know—oh, I had biology, yeah.
And I remember a famous quote.
You've heard of Dr. Doak?
He made this statement one time.
It was right before a corps trip.
And I had him in class.
And he made the statement.
He said, you call the roll, you know, and there was some absent.
And he said, well, if there was a corps trip to hell, there'd be Aggies leaving three days ahead of time.
So that's a quote from Dr. Doak.
He was an old Aggie, yeah.
Because I remember him telling us about they stole the rice owl, and this was back about right after World War I, and they chased him through the Brazos bottom and all that.
Dr. Doak was... Was he one of the people who stole the rice owl?
Well, he was in the group.
He said he was chased through the Brazos, the Navisota bottom and all that.
So I guess he was in on it.
But he was quite a popular professor.
Was he a good teacher?
Yes, I'd say he was a very excellent teacher, yeah.
During that first year, in the dining hall, what were the duties of a transfer student that first year?
Well, see, I wasn't, I was just, transfer really didn't apply to me.
We were just fish like everybody else.
We had no special distinction.
Well, we just had to wait until everybody got their things, and then we ate.
I mean, we were all sophomores and freshmen were all here, but they would, of course they had these names, Gun Whiting for Bren, and Cow for Butter, and stuff like that.
And there'd be a guy at the end of the table, say,
especially as a freshman, say, pass the biscuits or something like that.
And then probably a sophomore and everybody would help themselves.
The biscuit might not be in him when it got to him.
But then a sophomore would say, pass the gun water and then let it ride.
That means you don't take stuff off.
Don't take any off?
Let it ride.
Did you and your buddies that first year, did you all try to play any pranks on any upperclassmen in the dining hall?
No.
They didn't, I don't ever, but I've carried many a pie out.
By the way, I can tell you an interesting story on that.
There was a little enlisted man, Sergeant, it wasn't Richard now, what was his name?
Golly, it doesn't come to me right now.
But he was a shark sergeant on the door at that time, an enlisted man.
He never stopped me, but especially on Sunday morning, sophomores would want you to bring a pie out for them, so you'd put it under your trench coat and go out with a pie or something like that.
But anyhow, Tad Moses, did you ever know Tad?
All right, well, see, Tad was editor of the Cattlemen, and my father's company always advertised.
They were the...
for years and years they were the second page of the cattlemen.
So he knew about me and I got acquainted with Tad down there and he told me that this little sergeant, I'll think of it sometime, and Tad, Moses' brother, were on Bataan when it fell.
And they went gorilla.
They went to the hills and they almost made it through but right at the last somebody informed on the Japs gunman.
That is it.
But Tad told me that story.
That his brother and this sergeant
Oh, God, I knew his name.
I can't think of it.
Now, what was it like to smuggle a pie out of the... Could you get it out without getting it all over your shirt?
Yeah, I'm trying to think how we did that, but we didn't seem to have any trouble putting the pies in there and carrying them out.
But sometimes we got caught.
In another instance, I remember this one in our outfit, another outfit, there were two sophomores with this freshman, and they were just taking this hot pepper sauce, just loading this pie, and making this poor freshman eat it, and he was about to become a part of it.
Well, the same sergeant I'm trying to think of,
gosh, saw this incident.
So when the freshman finally got in all he could take and went off, he got these two guys, these sophomores, and collared them, put them down and did the same thing.
If you got caught trying to smuggle a pie out of the dining hall, what happened?
I think you got what they call rams, demerits.
Oh, okay.
I think that's what you got.
And, of course, you didn't get to take the pie out.
But I don't think too many guys got caught.
It just depends on his.
Beginning that year, what were your favorite Aggie dining hall foods?
What did you enjoy most?
Be honest with you, Haskell.
The first, let's see, who was still in charge then?
Was it Mr. Duncan?
Yeah, I think it was Duncan.
The food wasn't very good.
Really?
Yeah, it wasn't.
Some of it was all right and some of it better, but when Hotard came, we noticed an immediate improvement in the food.
In fact, we started getting hot biscuits and stuff.
So it went up quite a bit.
Before you came down here, did your parents give you any advice about being a college student, being an Aggie or anything?
No, no.
My dad wasn't one to give advice.
He learned from him more by example than he did advice.
All right.
What were the major buildings when you got here?
Well, the post office wasn't built until 38 up there on the corner.
Sebesa Hall, the Aggieland, Ramadi Inn,
Yeah, it was called Rimata Inn, wasn't it?
No, just Aggieland Inn.
Aggieland Inn, I'm sorry, yeah.
Aggieland Inn, the hospital back behind it.
Then the old campus theater was there, the old frame building.
Then you had Foster and Ross, of course.
You had Mitchell, Milner over there.
You had the old bookstore.
You had the red brick building over there, BNCU across from the bookstore.
Power plant, of course.
And then the veterinary...
still there at the veterinary hospital then there was a little uh kind of a shed by it at that time well i think there was originally old dr francis dissecting room and then the main old main with the dome and the dormitories and bezell hall we were then goodwin hall was there we we were i was a sophomore in goodwin hall and that was a cold winter i'm gonna tell you that old hall uh and uh guyon oh yeah guyon they called it gunion then
Gunyon.
You never heard it called Gunyon?
No.
Oh, yeah, that is called Gunyon.
And I'll tell you a story about Gunyon later.
And the YMCA.
Oh, yeah, YMCA.
And then Law and Perrier.
And, of course, the MSC wasn't there.
We didn't really have a place to meet except the YMCA.
Let's see.
Did you all have cush questions in the dining hall then?
Kush questions.
Later, those would develop, and these would be questions that a freshman would have to answer before he could eat his dessert, his Kush, and they were phrased so that there was never a correct answer.
No, I don't think we had those in my day.
Now, some outfits, you know, probably were different than others.
Our outfits, it wasn't.
What was special about your outfit?
What did y'all... Well, Pinky Mabin, I don't believe he's still living, was the
Then he would have been a senior in 37.
He was a company commander.
And he was a good guy, a military man.
It was military.
Of course, the freshmen, I mean, they still had hazing, of course.
And some hazing, some people were worse than others.
Did your outfit have a nickname?
No, they just called infantry, paddle feet, you know.
Okay.
And what kind of hazing occurred in your outfit in the dormitory?
Oh, with the paddle.
But the worst was in G Company, there was a senior, Rodney Chambliss, and I think he later became sheriff over at Madisonville.
They called him Bloody Rod.
And he would really paddle those guys.
But see, we could watch him, because we were in a different outfit.
He couldn't touch us, but we could watch him.
And he'd even pound when he left and came back as an ex-student.
He'd even pound on the seniors.
He was something.
But I want to tell you, it's pretty sad.
This fellow was from my hometown.
I didn't know him until I got here.
He was a sophomore.
and he had this big picture of a girl that was in my high school class on his desk, and I guess he was deeply in love with her.
Well, it's kind of sad, but anyhow, one morning he gets a newspaper clipping that this girl is eloped with somebody, and he didn't know it or anything.
So the poor guy's in shock, and you know what his friends' sophomores did?
They said all of us freshmen were to congratulate the guy, and he was, poor guy, was in shock.
I felt bad about it, but anyhow, that's...
Let's see, how did you all register for classes then?
How did you, when I got here, you stood in line in Cebisa.
Did you all register that way then?
I don't think we ever registered in Cebisa.
Well, how did you know?
See, now, when I changed to vet medicine in the mid-semester of 37, we
As I say, we had to go by the dean down in the administration building.
But it could have been that we signed up down there.
I just can't remember.
Who approved your classes?
Do you know?
The dean or associate dean?
Approved.
Approved the ones that you had selected, the ones you were ready.
Well, when we got into vet, we had to prescribe classes.
But the electives, I guess, we just take them as we wanted them to.
Because I took, when I finished, I believe, A&M, I had 200 hours.
I'd had every course.
in Animal Husband in those days, and then when I put in from a vet degree, the college overlooked it, and I did too, and I should have had a degree in Animal Husband, but I didn't get it.
I had all those courses.
When you, even beginning that first year, when you went to class, how did you and your buddies behave in class?
Well, it was a military school.
We just probably waited until somebody called on us, and that was it.
mouth off or anything like that.
Did you ever attempt any jokes in class?
Or did you all behave pretty well?
No, I think, as I recall, when you went to class, these professors that we had, they didn't put up the emphasis.
And did you go regularly?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
I never missed class.
Where did you go during the day if you had some free time?
Well, once in a great while, down under, they've closed it off, but have you heard of the old, or what do they call it, where you got a soda down under the YMCA?
Oh, uh-huh.
Sparks, and somebody had that.
And that, we'd get that, or we'd go to the library, maybe, or just go to somebody's room and shoot the bull or something like that.
It wasn't any, it was pretty...
open there, unless the sophomores had you doing something or something like that.
Because you couldn't go to your room and sleep.
No, you couldn't, not as freshmen.
And did you ever have to do many chores for an upperclassman during the day?
Between breakfast and supper, you didn't have to do many?
No, there wasn't too much.
If you were his maid, you might have to go do something, but generally speaking, yeah.
Let's see.
During all of your years here, who were some of the great teachers that you had?
Well, I'd say Dr. Doak was one of them, Dr. Dunn in veterinary medicine, and Dr. Leonard.
Describe them, Leonard and Dunn.
Well, Leonard was, he was raised down here in
I believe Schillenberg, something like that, down in there.
Anyhow, he was a graduate of a private, the private schools sort of closed up right around World War I or thereafter, private veterinary school.
And he was a graduate of Kansas City Veterinary College.
And he was a lean man, but very, very good teacher.
He knew the veterinary medicine of that day and time, which, you know, is not like that.
What was his specialty?
Well, he's a large animal clinician.
He was just anything that needed to be operated on, the large animal field.
That's Dr. Dunn.
No, Leonard.
He was a surgeon.
Dunn was a pathologist, well, more bacteriologist, but he also, I think, was head of pathology at that time, too.
But he came here to run the old serum lab, which I don't know if you remember that little building down there behind the administration building.
That was originally the Hog Collar Serum Lab.
And Dunn was brought here to run that.
And that went until about 23, and then they closed it down.
And then he became a faculty member and taught microbiology and veterinary microbiology for years.
He was a very good man.
Do you remember going to your first Aggie football game?
You remember that first fall, what it was like going to an Aggie game?
Yeah.
Yeah, it was, of course, you know, nothing like today.
Just the bleachers and all.
But I do remember when Rosalden came here in the spring of 37.
Describe that.
All right.
Now, here's the story.
When I came here, the rifles, we got them on drill day.
They were locked up in the bottom of Hart Hall in racks.
You didn't have a rifle.
I bet that's cold, isn't it?
No, I'm doing fine.
All right.
So we got only the raffles on drill days, but the sophomores told us that the year before
they had their rifles in the room and apparently live ammunition because they said they shot out Prexis Moon, which is the, you know, on top.
And so, me growing up with guns and all, I'm surprised that there wasn't somebody shot or killed, but we didn't hear about that.
They just said that the next year there were no rifles in the rooms, their firing pins had been taken out of the rifle, so they were harmless except to drill with.
All right, then when President Roosevelt came... Yeah, in 37, he visited here, and we had our rifles in the uniform, and I was in the front row of Kyle Field there, and I guess the car came by, I know, further from here to the wall, with Dr. Walton in the back and President Roosevelt in the back.
And I would guess there wasn't over four Secret Service men.
trailing along behind him.
And then we reviewed, then he was on the reviewing stand out on, now they call it Simpson Field, don't they?
Drill Field.
We reviewed, the Corps went reviewed past him, and so that was it.
But the interesting thing, I was always kidding people, I said Roosevelt and I have a birthday the same day, and we did on January 30th, but anyhow we didn't ever celebrate together.
Did any of y'all see him out of the car?
Did you see that he was crippled?
No, we didn't know.
In fact, I didn't know that, I guess, for years later.
He was already in the reviewing stand, I guess, when we got there.
No, I didn't know he was crippled for a long time.
Did he make a speech or anything?
I don't believe he did.
I think we just reviewed him.
And...
They drove all around Kyle Field in the big old touring car.
All right, when you went to a football game in your student days, did you all march into the stadium like they do now?
No, we didn't march in like they do now.
We had Harry over there where the band sits pretty well now on the east side over there.
No, I never remember moving.
And did you stand up at the game?
Yes, I believe we stood up, as I remember, practically most of the years.
Describe a court trip back in those days.
Well, I'll tell you one.
We made to Austin, and I used to make the court trips, and we went on the train.
To start with, the train wouldn't be pulling out of the station until some guys, and not that I was any angel, but I never did do it.
I never got to it.
They would have the toilet paper rolls out of the train wind holding them.
And as the train went, this would unroll.
So there never was a train that left Cottage Station in my dime that didn't have toilet paper streaming from the first car back to the end.
And we went over to Austin.
We'd go up, I think, to Hearn, and they put us on the Missouri Pacific tracks.
We went to Austin, and I do remember it was a beautiful day in 38 over in Austin.
We marched up Congress Avenue, and it was a beautiful day but cold, and I thought that rifle was freezing my shoulder.
I remember that, yeah.
And how did the crowd, when y'all marched on Congress Avenue, how did the crowd react to y'all?
Were they respectful?
Oh, I think so.
To be honest, I can't remember too much, but I never remember any incident, no.
And did you come back soon after the game, or did y'all spend the night, or do you know?
Oh, no, we came back, got back on the train, came back.
Yeah, we didn't spend the night.